feat: add sample maintainers.md (#878)
hyperledger-labs/open-enterprise-agent: MAINTAINERS.md

# Maintainers

## Maintainer Scopes, GitHub Roles and GitHub Teams

Maintainers are assigned the following scopes in this repository:

| Scope | Definition | GitHub Role | GitHub Team |
| ----- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | Maintainer | The GitHub Maintain role | Maintain   | `<repository> committers`     |

Reviewer: @davidpoltorak-io I don't follow the purpose of the GitHub Team column. Can you elaborate?

Author: This refers to how access has been set up within Github. Those that are part of a specific `team` get given the right to `maintain` the repository. For this repo - all maintainers are part of the `open-enterprise-agent-maintainers` team and have the role of `Maintain`

> | Maintainer | The GitHub Maintain role | Maintain   | `<repository> committers`     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maintainer | The GitHub Maintain role | Maintain   | `open-enterprise-agent-maintainers`     |
```

## Active Maintainers

<!-- Please keep this sorted alphabetically by github -->

| Name | GitHub ID | Scope | LFID | Discord ID | Email | Company Affiliation |
|----- | --------- | ----- | ---- | ---------- | ----- | ------------------- |

> |      |           |       |      |            |       |                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anton Baliasnikov | antonbaliasnikov | Maintainer | | | antonbaliasnikov@gmail.com  | |
| Björn Sandmann | bsandmann | Maintainer | | bjoernsandmann   | sandmann@codedata.solutions | Blocktrust |
| David Poltorak | davidpoltorak-io | Maintainer | | davidpoltorak_io | david.poltorak@iohk.io | IOHK |
| Pat Losoponkul | patlo-iog | Maintainer | | pat_pat | pat.losoponkul@iohk.io | IOHK |
| Yurii Shynbuiev | yshyn-iohk | Maintainer | | yuriishynbuiev | david.poltorak@iohk.io | IOHK |
```

| Scope | Definition | GitHub Role | GitHub Team |
| ----- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Maintainer | The GitHub Maintain role | Maintain   | `open-enterprise-agent-maintainers`     |

## Active Maintainers

<!-- Please keep this sorted alphabetically by github -->

| Name | GitHub ID | Scope | LFID | Discord ID | Email | Company Affiliation |
|----- | --------- | ----- | ---- | ---------- | ----- | ------------------- |
| Björn Sandmann | bsandmann | Maintainer | | bjoernsandmann   | sandmann@codedata.solutions | Blocktrust |
| David Poltorak | davidpoltorak-io | Maintainer | | davidpoltorak_io | david.poltorak@iohk.io | IOHK |
| Pat Losoponkul | patlo-iog | Maintainer | | pat_pat | pat.losoponkul@iohk.io | IOHK |
| Yurii Shynbuiev | yshyn-iohk | Maintainer | | yuriishynbuiev | yurii.shynbuiev@iohk.io | IOHK |

## Emeritus Maintainers

| Name | GitHub ID | Scope | LFID | Discord ID | Email | Company Affiliation |
|----- | --------- | ----- | ---- | ---------- | ----- | ------------------- |
| Anton Baliasnikov | antonbaliasnikov | Maintainer | | | antonbaliasnikov@gmail.com  | |

## The Duties of a Maintainer

> Maintainers are expected to perform the following duties for this repository. The duties are listed in more or less priority order:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expectation is for maintainers to perform the following duties for this repository. The responsibilities listed are in high to low-priority order:
```

- Review, respond, and act on any security vulnerabilities reported against the repository.
- Review, provide feedback on, and merge or reject GitHub Pull Requests from
  Contributors.
- Review, triage, comment on, and close GitHub Issues
  submitted by Contributors.
- When appropriate, lead/facilitate architectural discussions in the community.
- When appropriate, lead/facilitate the creation of a product roadmap.
- Create, clarify, and label issues to be worked on by Contributors.

> - Ensure that there is a well defined (and ideally automated) product test and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure that there is a well-defined (and ideally automated) product test and
```

  release pipeline, including the publication of release artifacts.
- When appropriate, execute the product release process.
- Maintain the repository CONTRIBUTING.md file and getting started documents to

>   give guidance and encouragement to those wanting to contribute to the product, and those wanting to become maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  give guidance and encouragement to those wanting to contribute to the product and become maintainers.
```

- Contribute to the product via GitHub Pull Requests.
- Monitor requests from the Hyperledger Technical Oversight Committee about the
contents and management of Hyperledger repositories, such as branch handling,

> required files in repositories and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
required files in repositories, etc.
```

- Contribute to the Hyperledger Project's Quarterly Report.

## Becoming a Maintainer

This community welcomes contributions. Interested contributors are encouraged to

> progress to become maintainers. To become a maintainer the following steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
progress to become maintainers. To become a maintainer, the following steps
```

> occur, roughly in order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
occur roughly in order.
```

- The proposed maintainer establishes their reputation in the community,
  including authoring five (5) significant merged pull requests, and expresses
  an interest in becoming a maintainer for the repository.

> - A PR is created to update this file to add the proposed maintainer to the list of active maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A PR has been created to update this file and add the proposed maintainer to the list of active maintainers.
```

> - The PR is authored by an existing maintainer or has a comment on the PR from an existing maintainer supporting the proposal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An existing maintainer authors the PR or has a comment on the PR from an existing maintainer supporting the proposal.
```

> - The PR is authored by the proposed maintainer or has a comment on the PR from the proposed maintainer confirming their interest in being a maintainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The proposed maintainer authors the PR or has a comment on the PR from the proposed maintainer confirming their interest in being a maintainer.
```

  - The PR or comment from the proposed maintainer must include their

>     willingness to be a long-term (more than 6 month) maintainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    willingness to be a long-term (more than 6 months) maintainer.
```

> - Once the PR and necessary comments have been received, an approval timeframe begins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An approval timeframe begins once the PR and necessary comments are received.
```

> - The PR **MUST** be communicated on all appropriate communication channels, including relevant community calls, chat channels and mailing lists. Comments of support from the community are welcome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The PR **MUST** be communicated on all appropriate communication channels, including relevant community calls, chat channels, and mailing lists. Comments of support from the community are welcome.
```

> - The PR is merged and the proposed maintainer becomes a maintainer if either:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The PR gets merged, and the proposed maintainer becomes a maintainer if either:
```

>   - Two weeks have passed since at least three (3) Maintainer PR approvals have been recorded, OR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Two weeks have passed since the receipt of at least three (3) Maintainer PR approvals, OR
```

  - An absolute majority of maintainers have approved the PR.

> - If the PR does not get the requisite PR approvals, it may be closed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It may be closed if the PR does not get the requisite PR approvals.
```

> - Once the add maintainer PR has been merged, any necessary updates to the GitHub Teams are made.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once the add maintainer PR merges, any updates to the GitHub Teams are made.
```

## Removing Maintainers

> Being a maintainer is not a status symbol or a title to be carried

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Being a maintainer is not a status symbol or a title or indefinite. 
```

> indefinitely. It will occasionally be necessary and appropriate to move a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving the maintainer to emeritus status will occasionally be necessary and appropriate.
```

> maintainer to emeritus status. This can occur in the following situations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The status change can occur in the following situations:
```

- Resignation of a maintainer.
- Violation of the Code of Conduct warranting removal.
- Inactivity.
  - A general measure of inactivity will be no commits or code review comments

>     for one reporting quarter. This will not be strictly enforced if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    for one reporting quarter. Inactivity will not be strictly enforced if
```

    the maintainer expresses a reasonable intent to continue contributing.

>   - Reasonable exceptions to inactivity will be granted for known long term

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Reasonable exceptions to inactivity will be granted for known long-term
```

    leave such as parental leave and medical leave.

> - Other circumstances at the discretion of the other Maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Other circumstances are at the discretion of the other maintainers.
```

The process to move a maintainer from active to emeritus status is comparable to the process for adding a maintainer, outlined above. In the case of voluntary

> resignation, the Pull Request can be merged following a maintainer PR approval. If the removal is for any other reason, the following steps **SHOULD** be followed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resignation, the Pull Request is mergeable following a maintainer PR approval. If the removal is for any other reason, the following steps **SHOULD** be followed:
```

> - A PR is created to update this file to move the maintainer to the list of emeritus maintainers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A PR has been created to update this file and move the maintainer to the list of emeritus maintainers.
```

> - The PR is authored by, or has a comment supporting the proposal from, an existing maintainer or Hyperledger GitHub organization administrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The PR is authored by or has a comment supporting the proposal from an existing maintainer or Hyperledger GitHub organization administrator.
```

> - Once the PR and necessary comments have been received, the approval timeframe begins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The approval timeframe begins upon receipt of the PR and necessary comments.
```

> - The PR **MAY** be communicated on appropriate communication channels, including relevant community calls, chat channels and mailing lists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The PR **MAY** be communicated on appropriate channels, including relevant community calls, chat channels, and mailing lists.
```

> - The PR is merged and the maintainer transitions to maintainer emeritus if:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The PR gets merged, and the maintainer transitions to maintainer emeritus if: 
```

>   - The PR is approved by the maintainer to be transitioned, OR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The PR gets approval from the maintainer to transition, OR 
```

>   - Two weeks have passed since at least three (3) Maintainer PR approvals have been recorded, OR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Two weeks have passed since receipt of at least three (3) Maintainer PR approvals, OR 
```

  - An absolute majority of maintainers have approved the PR.

> - If the PR does not get the requisite PR approvals, it may be closed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- It may be closed if the PR does not get the requisite PR approvals.
```

Returning to active status from emeritus status uses the same steps as adding a
new maintainer. Note that the emeritus maintainer already has the 5 required

> significant changes as there is no contribution time horizon for those.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
significant changes, as there is no contribution time horizon for those.
```
